Title: Sediment
Daniel Anderson.
Text: The prosumer marks the
blurring of consumption and production.
But might the prosumer also represent
a new mode of composing? Lev Manovich
notes that spatialized narrative
in the twentieth century "was relegated
to 'minor' cultural forms such as comics
or technical illustrations. 'Real' culture
of the twentieth century came to speak
of linear chains, aligning itself with
the assembly line
of the industrial society. . . ."
What if we imagine modes that make meaning
with simultaneous arrangements and loops?
Multiple videos appear on screen.
A stock of plastic spins in a lathe
in the lower left.
A screencast shows a desktop and videos
in the upper left.
A video shows a man balancing rocks
in the lower right.
Two performers with guitars appear in
overlay above the rock balancer.
A video shows design scans for a sediment
trap in the upper right.
The design shows a collecting tube
attached to a funnel
that contains an intervalometer.
In the lower right, the video shows
strips of text
layered over the man balancing rocks.
In the upper left, the video shows web
browsers and band members on stage.
Windows appear in the video: a text editor
and a video with blue sky and jet trails.
The video in the upper left shows
an article: The Digital Humanities
and the Transcending of Mortality.
In the upper right, the sediment trap
video shows layers of mud
in a collecting tube, and then an engine
block cylinder on a workbench.
Hands appear, working on the engine block,
mixed with imagery of hands folding paper
In the lower right above the
rock balancing is written text:
This is writing.
In the upper right, folding hands mix
with a timeline marking sediment.
In the lower left, the video shows plastic
stock spinning on a lathe.
An outboard motor appears in the
upper right.
In the lower right, a man balances rocks
mixed with figures singing.
Overlaid on the figures are strips of text
and writing.
The cursor selects windows, rearranging
their layering.
The video showing lathing comes forward.
It now mixes in shop imagery.
In the upper right, a photograph with a
figure on an antique bicycle moves
from left to right.
In the upper left, an animated bird
appears, then flaps its wings.
The video with rock balancing comes
forward. More text has been written
on its surface: about writing
materials
The stone
paper.
In the upper right, the video shows hands
rebuilding a small engine.
In the upper left, a figure picks a guitar
on stage.
In the lower left, the video
comes forward.
It shows hands working on a lathe.
In the upper left, the video
comes forward.
It shows a figure shoveling snow, a text
editor, and a video with text.
The sediment trap video shows a hook
device in a diagram with a label: Loop.
In the lower left, a hand adjusts a
wooden stock in a lathe.
The lathe begins spinning, the bit
shaving the tip of the stock
to create a pencil.
The video in the upper left comes forward.
it shows a spotlight illuminating word
counts in a text editor.
In the lower right, the video is now
covered with written text above
the man stacking rocks
and figures singing.
Text scrolls in the sediment video: What
happens to the floccules?
Do they get flattened beyond recognition?
The sediment video in the upper right
shows a title:
A simple granular demonstration.
The sediment video shows a diagram
for a device that uses a speaker and
sloped tray to shake steel balls.
A video with underwater lake footage
appears in the lower left.
In the upper right, steel balls appear,
stacked in rows in a shaking device.
The balls on the top layer bounce gently.
In the upper left, a video slides
on screen with text: Principles
of Stratigraphy.
In the upper right, hands rebuild
a small engine.
The cursor clicks through windows.
In the upper left, a diagram shows the
accumulation of geologic layers.
The rock balancing video shows new text:
But how different are the ways we write?
In the upper left, text is copied
in a blog posting.
In the upper right, steel balls
bounce in a shaking device.
In the lower left, turning gears and a
chain are layered over lathing imagery.
In the upper left, a spotlight illuminates
a word count.
In the rock balancing video, a strip of
text scrolls: combine words and images
in the same textual space.
In the upper left, a player picks rapidly
on a guitar.
In the upper right, text appears: the size
of floccules increases as velocity drops.
In the shaking device, steel balls bounce
with increased intensity, the
top and bottom layers now active.
In the lower left, underwater lake footage
comes forward.
In the upper left text appears: deposition
of sediments.
In the upper right, all balls in the
shaking device now bounce.
Hands folding paper appear, opaque, in the
upper right.
Steel balls bounce.
In the upper left, the video shows vivid
orange jet trails and the band performing.
Plastic stock spins on the lathe.
The steel balls bounce higher with more
frequency in the upper right.
Sediment diagrams appear
in the upper left.
The band performing comes forward.
The drummer crashes on his kit.
Jet trails show orange against a
sunset sky.
In the upper right, imagery of hands
folding paper and repairing an engine mix.
In the upper left, over geologic
diagrams, text appears:
Horizontally Deposited Layers.
The shaking device comes forward.
Balls bounce with intensity.
In the upper left, the band plays with
intensity, jet trails blaze orange
against a grey sky, and an old man
makes large soap bubbles on a beach.
The cursor moves between windows:
rock balancing, sediment formation,
plastic stock spinning on a lathe.
In the upper left, the band jams
and jet trails blaze orange.
The rock balancing video comes forward.
The layers of writing and figures singing
have been removed. It now shows
a man in a red shirt balancing
the last of three rocks on top
of one another.
In the upper left, the band ceases
rapid playing.
A band member picks sparsely on a guitar.
The video in the upper left shows two
figures in an office.
In the shaking device, steel balls bounce
with high intensity.
In the upper right, a slide image shows
a teen boy on an antique bicycle.
The rock balancing video comes forward.
The man intently balances the top rock.
Steel balls bounce with high intensity.
Band players pick guitars.
Geologic diagrams show sediment layers.
In the lower right, the man balancing
rocks pulls back his hands and spreads
his arms. He steps back and three rocks
balanced on top of one another appear.
In the top left, figures appear
in an office, then the frame freezes.
In the top right, hands apply glue
to a rolled paper stem.
Steel balls bounce with high intensity in
the upper right.
The rock balancing video comes forward,
fades to black, then begins playing again.
In the upper right, hands attach the
rolled stem to a folded paper flower.
The cursor presses stop
on the video windows.
Text appears:
iamdananderson.net